Add model2vec documentation (#1118)
spiceai/docs: website/docs/components/embeddings/model2vec.md

---
title: 'Model2Vec Embedding Models'
sidebar_label: 'Model2Vec'
sidebar_position: 4
---

> To use a Model2Vec embedding model with Spice, specify the `model2vec` path in the `from` field of your configuration. Model2Vec is a technique that distills embeddings from transformer models into static word embeddings, providing efficient embedding generation, in parallel, without performing external API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a Model2Vec embedding model with Spice, specify the `model2vec` prefix in the `from` field of your configuration. Model2Vec is a technique that distills embeddings from transformer models into static word embeddings, providing efficient embedding generation, in parallel, without performing external API calls.
```

> To use a Model2Vec embedding model with Spice, specify the `model2vec` prefix in the `from` field of your configuration. Model2Vec is a technique that distills embeddings from transformer models into static word embeddings, providing efficient embedding generation, in parallel, without performing external API calls.

Reviewer 2: Start with what model2vec is, maybe 1-2 benefits (500x faster, smaller, etc.), and then how to use it. A link to the HuggingFace blog is probably good too. https://huggingface.co/blog/Pringled/model2vec

The following parameters are specific to Model2Vec models:

| Parameter                   | Description                                                                                       | Default                    |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `hf_token`                  | The Hugging Face access token for accessing private models.                                       | -                          |
| `normalize`                 | Whether to normalize embeddings (defaults to the model's configuration).                          | Model's default setting    |

> | `subfolder`                 | Optional subfolder path when using Hugging Face models that reside in a subfolder of the repo.    | -                          |

Reviewer 3: _"when using Hugging Face models "_ technically works for filepaths too?

Author: Good point, going to strike that

| `parallelism`               | Number of parallel threads to use for embedding computation.                                      | System CPU count           |
| `embed_max_token_length`    | Maximum token length for embeddings.                                                              | -                          |
| `embed_custom_batch_size`   | Custom batch size override for embedding operations.                                              | -                          |

For more details on Model2Vec parameters and functionality, refer to the [model2vec-rs documentation](https://github.com/MinishLab/model2vec-rs).

> Here is an example configuration in `spicepod.yaml` for [`minishlab/potion-base-8m`](https://huggingface.co/minishlab/potion-base-8M):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example configuration in `spicepod.yaml` for [`minishlab/potion-base-8m`](https://huggingface.co/minishlab/potion-base-8M):
```

```yaml
embeddings:
  - from: model2vec:minishlab/potion-base-8M
    name: potion_base_8m
```

## Local Models

Model2Vec models can also be loaded from the local filesystem by specifying a file path:

```yaml
embeddings:
  - from: model2vec:/path/to/local/model
    name: local_model2vec
```

## Private Models

Model2Vec supports private Hugging Face models with authentication:

```yaml
embeddings:
  - from: model2vec:your-organization/private-model
    name: private_embeddings
    params:
      hf_token: ${ secrets:HF_TOKEN }
```

## Advanced Configuration

> For performance optimization, you can configure parallelism and embedding batch sizes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For performance optimization, configure parallelism and embedding batch sizes:
```

```yaml
embeddings:
  - from: model2vec:minishlab/potion-base-8M
    name: potion_optimized
    params:
      parallelism: 8
      embed_custom_batch_size: 32
      normalize: true
```

> ## Distilling Your Own Models

Reviewer 3: This might make a good cookbook (that you could then link out to ).

Author: Totally! I want to add an embedding models bench cookbook that does a more comprehensive comparison, so I'll fold that in when I get there :)

> You can create your own Model2Vec embeddings by distilling existing sentence transformer models. For more detailed instructions, see the [Model2Vec Quickstart guide](https://github.com/MinishLab/model2vec?tab=readme-ov-file#quickstart). Here's how to distill the popular [`sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2`](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2) model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create custom Model2Vec embeddings by distilling existing sentence transformer models. For more detailed instructions, see the [Model2Vec Quickstart guide](https://github.com/MinishLab/model2vec?tab=readme-ov-file#quickstart). Here's how to distill the popular [`sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2`](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2) model:
```
